---
title: HTML slides instead of Beamer
author: Yun Hao
tag: html, slides, beamer
---

I spent some days on making some slides using [Bespoke.js][].
Here you can see the [demo] with [source] written in markdown and
converted to HTML by Pandoc. Some parts of the texts are generated by [mathgen][].
I am still working on it. There are many to be done. This post and the demo
will be updated whenever there are updates.

[demo]: /files/bespoke-test/dist/
[source]: /files/bespoke-test/src/index.txt
[mathgen]: http://thatsmathematics.com/mathgen/

<!--more-->

There are some reasons that I choose [Bespoke.js][] but not others:

- Math rendering is of great importance to me. Nowadays I have to choose from
  [MathJax] (slow but fully functional) and [KaTeX]
  (very fast but less functions). Besides, instead of writing annoying HTML
  directly, I prefer to use markdown, though there are many other ways
  to write HTML faster, e.g., preprocessors like [Slim][], [HAML][] and [Pug][], 
  or editor plugin like [Emmet][]. But anyway, I am not a developer,
  and I would also make it easy for other people (mathematicians) to use
  my template. So markdown seems to be a better option --- at least many of
  those people use mathoverflow or math.stackexchange. For converting markdown
  to HTML, I belive in [Pandoc][] only, not only because it supports a large
  variety of advanced features, including [filters][pandoc-filters], but because
  I am quite used to it --- this site is built with Hakyll and Hakyll uses
  Pandoc as a backend.
- There have already been 5 kinds of HTML slides that are supported by Pandoc:
  * [Slidy][], [Slideous][] and [S5][] are not HTML5. It is 2018 now. I do need
  modern CSS and JavaScript to make my life easier (though... sometimes
  more complicated as [the frontend "technologies" change too fast][complicated]).
  * [DZSlides][] is too simple. Most of time, for academic slides, it is enough.
    But I think that the reason why we do not make fancy transition effects and
    animations on our slides is not that we cannot do that (it very hard to do
    this for PDF files, so for Beamer).
  * [Reveal.js][] ([examples][revealjs-examples], [editor][slides.com])
    is a good option, but it is very hard to style. It was my first choice but
    after tying to style it, I find it too difficult. The initial themes are
    heavily styled and the resulting HTMLs by its JS are complicated. It uses
    the old-fashioned layout hacks to align objects, rather than the modern
    flexbox (see [turorial 1][flexbox1], [tutorial 2][flexbox2],
    which has already been widely supported.
    But one thing I like it is there are quite a lot of [plugins][reveal-plugins].
- [Impress.js][] ([examples][impressjs-examples]) is tooooooo fancy for academic
  slides.
- [Remark.js][] ([generator][remarkise]) is another nice option. However it has
  less features while a large file size compared to Bespoke.js.
- [Shower][] is also nice, but after I found [Bespoke.js][], I give it up.
- There are many others, but I do not want to test all of them,
  for examples, [Deck.js][], [S9][], [CSSS][] etc.
- [Bespoke.js][] has a micro file size, but provie tons of functions via
  [plugins][bespoke-plugins]. It is very easy to style the slides: the default is `flexbox`.
  And there are more advantages.

[flexbox1]: //css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
[flexbox2]: //stackoverflow.com/a/33856609/2929058

[MathJax]: //www.mathjax.org/#samples
[KaTeX]: //khan.github.io/KaTeX/
[Pandoc]: //pandoc.org/
[pandoc-filters]: //pandoc.org/filters.html

[slim]: http://slim-lang.com/
[HAML]: http://haml.info/tutorial.html
[Pug]: //pugjs.org/
[Emmet]: //emmet.io/
[complicated]: //medium.com/front-end-hacking/how-it-feels-to-learn-javascript-in-2017-a934b801fbe

[DZSlides]: http://paulrouget.com/dzslides/
[Shower]: //shwr.me/
[Remark.js]: //remarkjs.com/
[Impress.js]: //impress.js.org
[Reveal.js]: //revealjs.com
[remarkise]: //remarkjs.com/remarkise
[Slidy]: //www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/Overview.html
[Slideous]: http://goessner.net/articles/slideous/
[S5]: //meyerweb.com/eric/tools/s5/
[S9]: //slideshow-s9.github.io/
[Deck.js]: //imakewebthings.com/deck.js/
[CSSS]: //leaverou.github.io/csss/
[Bespoke.js]: http://markdalgleish.com/projects/bespoke.js/

[slides.com]: //slides.com/
[Revealjs-examples]: //github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/wiki/Example-Presentations
[impressjs-examples]: //github.com/impress/impress.js/wiki/Examples-and-demos
[reveal-plugins]: //github.com/hakimel/reveal.js/wiki/Plugins,-Tools-and-Hardware
[bespoke-plugins]: //www.npmjs.org/browse/keyword/bespoke-plugin